

## Smart Contracts Aren’t So Smart

Contracts are deeply social tools as well as legal ones. We have traced three contracting practices that reveal some of their social complexity and shed light on some of the mechanisms through which contracts actually “work.” Together, these three practices (which are, of course, far from exhaustive) demonstrate how contracts operate as social resources, through and against which people manage their relationships, and within which legal obligations and social expectations are intricately interwoven and mutually constitutive.

What are the implications for blockchain-based contracts? I assert that “smart” contracts fail to take the social complexities of contracting into account; indeed, they are not designed to. **We might think of smart contracts as book-smart, not street-smart: while they may facilitate technically perfect and seamless implementation of agreements, and lower transaction costs, they fail to understand or integrate the social world.** The social friction required to negotiate and enforce a “dumb” contract can be highly functional—by preserving flexibility, facilitating stability, signaling community norms, and the like. **Blockchain-based contracts rely on careful prespecification of terms and automated enforcement of obligations. These contracts thus impose a degree of inflexibility on contractors’ relations that might short-circuit a number of alternative uses to which law is put.** Smart contract boosterism demonstrates the appeal of bright-line enforcement rules. Rules of this sort often garner strong support from the tech community due to their computability and perceived efficiency. But when these rules hit the ground of real practice, custom, and human behavior, their effects may be nonobvious, even counterintuitive (Rose 1988).

Notably, the social effects of contract—which do not require recourse to courts for enforcement—represent a form of self-execution, as well, though a different sort than that contemplated by smart contract proponents. We might think of contracts as sometimes having the capacity to socially self-execute—they “work” via their effects on parties’ behavior, even without formal adjudication—rather than through technical self-execution, in which enforcement relies on code. Social self-execution relies on the communicative functions contracting serves between parties, which may be wholly distinct from their formal legal effect. In a sense, then, contracts speak in multiple registers at once, to multiple audiences—a form of what Dan-Cohen (1984, p. 630) termed “acoustic separation.” Dan-Cohen posited that “the law necessarily contains two sets of messages. One set is directed at the general public and provides guidelines for conduct. ... The other set of messages is directed at [legal] officials and provides guidelines for their decisions.” **Automated contracts tend to focus on contracts’ capacity for legal communication, perhaps to the expense of their social capacity.**

Of course, this isn’t to say that there is no role for automated contracts, nor that such contracts might introduce some desirable social consequences with respect to equitable access to justice. As we have discussed, a good deal of nonenforcement of contractual obligations results from the high transaction costs of taking someone to court. To the extent that smart contracts would reduce these transaction costs, they might beneficially remove an impediment to less- resourced parties’ contractual rights. At the same time, automated enforcement of contractual obligations—particularly when such obligations are instantiated via interconnected objects— seems likely to have detrimental effects on underresourced people, who often depend on (even asymmetric) transaction costs to grant them a “buffer” within which to operate. Consider, for example, several recent cases in which subprime lenders have used starter interruptor devices to remotely, and immediately, disable vehicles whenever a borrower falls behind on payments (Corkery and Silver-Greenberg 2014; Jeong 2016; Segal 2016), to the great detriment of borrowers.



