
## Generalized State Channel


Goal:

* Design a generialized state channels implementation that preserves privacy, is built using modular components, has support for multiple parallel operations inside a single channel, and allows users to upgrade channel designs without any on-chain operations.
* Make it easy for developers to utilize state channels by providing a framework and standard modular components for building secure, performant applications.


**Places as little on-chain as possible while still remaining secure**


### Terminology

**State Deposit**

locking up some portion of blockchain state into a multisig contract, controlled by a defined set of participants.

**Unanimous Consent**

All parties sign each off-chain transaction.

**Instant Finality**

For this reason, state channels offer 'instant' transactions -- i.ie, parties do not have to wait for blockchain confirmations.
An application can *immediately* consider an operation finalized and display that to user.

**Refer back to the Blockchain only when Necessary**

If anything goes wrong, all parties always have the option to deploy the latest version of the state to the blockchain.


### Conterfactual Terminology

**Conterfactual**

meas something that *could* be true, but it is not.

**Counterfactual X**

to describe a case where:

* X could happen on chain, but does not
* Any participant can unilaterally make X happen on-chain
* Participants can therefore act as though X has happened on-chain


### Counterfactual Instantiation

Counterfactual Instantiation means to instantiate a contract without actually deploying it on-chain.

When a contract is conterfactually instantiated, all parties in the channel act as though it has been deployed, even though it has not.

Counterfactual instantiations is achieved by making user sign and share **commitments** to the multisig wallet.
These commitments say that if the counterfactually instantiated contract were to be instantiated on-chain, the multisig wallet will look at the instantiated contract and transfer the appropriate state deposit based on the state of that contract.


**Global Registry**

An on-chain contract that maps unique deterministic addresses for any counterfactual contract to actual on-chain deployed addresses.
The hashing function used to produce the deterministic address can be any function that takes into account the bytecode, its owner, and a unique identifier.

Registry 保存了counterfactual contract与on-chain deployed contract的映射关系，从而实现即使不在链上部署合约，也可以执行这个合约的功能。


